---
layout: default
title: About
permalink: /about/
---


<h3>What is {% include module.html first="PROJECT" second="CHRONO" %}?</h3>

Project Chrono is a set of open-source tools for mechanical simulations.
The core of Project Chrono is the Chrono::Engine C++ middleware, a powerful object-oriented set of libraries whose application program interface (API) can be freely used to develop simulation software. The Chrono::Engine project is based on a platform-independent, open-source design.


Other projects that build the Project Chrono ecosystems are: Chrono::PyEngine, a set of Python modules that enable you to use Chrono::Engine in Python, Chrono::SolidWorks, an add-in for the SolidWorks 3D CAD, that can be used to export 3D models and geometries from the CAD to a file to be used in Chrono::Engine, Chrono::Render, a tool for managing the rendering of data outputs generated by simulations, Chrono::GPU, a library for enabling GPU parallel computation in Chrono::Engine, Chrono::Parallel, a library for enabling MPI parallel computation in Chrono::Engine, and other that will come in future.



### HISTORY

The first version of the {% include module.html first="CHRONO" second="ENGINE" %} software, once simply called Chrono, had been developed in 1998 by [Prof. Alessandro Tasora](http://dynamics.eng.unipr.it/tasora) when he was a student at the Politecnico di Milano. It was the result of a thesis in Mechanical Engineering. Originally, Chrono::Engine was meant as a multibody tool for robotics and biomechanics.

Soon after the thesis, Alessandro Tasora started working at the Politecnico di Milano as a researcher and he kept improving the software, which was used in designing mechatronic devices and robots. In those years, the software was closed source and it was not available to the public.

Until 2002, the Chrono::Engine software was tightly connected to an user interface, in form of a plug-in for the Realsoft3D modeler; this lead also to commercial licenses with an user-friendly GUI interface. However it soon emerged that a development of Chrono::Engine in form of a stand-alone library would have been more versatile and open to future developments, so in years 2002-2005 it took the shape of a middleware, as it is nowadays.

In year 2005, [Prof. Mihai Anitescu](http://www.mcs.anl.gov/~anitescu/) from Argonne Natonal Laboratories started a collaboration that led to advanced solvers for the case of frictional contacts - a problem that is challenging even nowadays for many simulation tools.

In year 2006, [Prof. Dan Negrut](http://homepages.cae.wisc.edu/~negrut/index.htm) from the University of Wisconsin joined the team and started an intense collaboration that led to many applications and that made Chrono::Engine much more widespread. In particular, Prof. Dan Negrut fostered the development of the GPU version of the code, and had many of his students at his [SBEL](http://sbel.wisc.edu) laboratories working on Chrono::Engine, obtaining media exposure and scientific prizes. Also, in 2008 the NVIDIA corporation started sponsoring the researches on parallel numerical methods for our massive multibody problems.

In year 2013 we took the decision to release the Chrono::Engine as open source, with a very liberal BSD license, and we made the code freely available on [GitHub](http://github.com/projectchrono). We also decided that Chrono::Engine should be a component in the broader context of the new ProjectChrono ecosystem.

### Present and Future

Currently, the [development team](/people) counts many programmers and scientists, and there are many institutions and companies that used and are actively using Chrono::Engine for researches and engineering applications.

Future developments will address CFD (we already have experimental code not available on Github), flexible parts via corotational FEM and ANCF, and new efficient solvers. 


###References

####Papers

Here is a short list of papers that describe the mathematical /
algorithmical background of Chrono::Engine.

-   Anitescu, M., Tasora, A. *An iterative approach for cone
    complementarity problems for nonsmooth dynamics*, Computational
    Optimization and Applications, 2010, 47(2), 207-235. (also preprint
    version from [this
    link](http://www.mcs.anl.gov/uploads/cels/papers/P1413.pdf))

<!-- -->

-   Tasora, A., Anitescu, M. *A matrix-free cone complementarity
    approach for solving large-scale, nonsmooth, rigid body dynamics*,
    Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering, 2011, 200,
    439 - 45. (also preprint version from [this
    link](http://www.mcs.anl.gov/~anitescu/PUBLICATIONS/2010/preprint_TASORA_ANITESCU_COMP.pdf))

<!-- -->

-   Tasora, A., Anitescu, M. *A convex complementarity approach for
    simulating large granular flows*, Journal of Computational and
    Nonlinear Dynamics, 2010, 5, 1-10

<!-- -->

-   Tasora, A., Negrut, D., & Anitescu, M. *Large-scale parallel
    multi-body dynamics with frictional contact on the graphical
    processing unit*. Journal of Multi-body Dynamics, 2008, 222, 315-32

<!-- -->

-   Tasora, A., Negrut, D. *A parallel algorithm for solving complex
    multibody problems with streaming processors*, International Journal
    for Computational Vision and Biomechanics, Professional Engineering
    Publishing, 2009, 1(2), 131-143 (also preprint version from [this
    link](http://ied.unipr.it/tasora/pubblicazioni/paper_IJCV.pdf))
