Install Chrono PyEngine {#tutorial_install_chrono_pyengine}
==========================

This is an optional unit that adds Python support in Chrono::Engine. Read the introduction to units for a technical background on the modularity of the Chrono::Engine project. 

The **unit_PYTHON** allows users to use the
[Python](http://www.python.org) language for creating simulations, with
the typical advantages of scripting languages (immediate execution, no
compilers, ease of use, etc.). This units, in particular, builds the
[**Chrono::PyEngine**](/documentation/chrono_pyengine/) wrapper.

This unit consists of **two** main sets of build targets:

-   The Python modules for
    [**Chrono::PyEngine**](/documentation/chrono_pyengine/).
    Currently, the PyChrono::Engine Python modules that are built are:
    -   **ChronoEngine_PYTHON_core**, that wraps all the core
        Chrono::Engine,
    -   **ChronoEngine_PYTHON_postprocess**, that wraps
        the unit_POSTPROCESS.
    -   **ChronoEngine_PYTHON_irrlicht**, that wraps
        the unit_IRRLICHT.

-   A **unit_PYPARSER** is built, that is a c++ unit for parsing /
    executing / interpreting Python instructions from C++ programs.

Requirements
------------

-   To **run** applications based on this unit:
    -   you must have [Python](http://www.python.org) installed.
-   To **build** this unit:
    -   you must have [Python](http://www.python.org) installed,
    -   you must have [Swig](http://www.swig.org/) wrapper
        generator installed.

Building instructions
---------------------

-   Install SWIG on your system. (If needed, add its directory to your
    PATH so that swig.exe can be run from the shell).

-   Repeat the instructions for the [full
    installation](Install "wikilink"), but when you see the CMake
    window, you must add the following steps:

-   Set the ENABLE_UNIT_PYTHON as 'on', then press 'Configure' (to
    refresh the variable list)

-   Set the CH_PYTHONDIR variable to the directory where you have your
    copy of Python. For example, it could be C:/Python33


-   When you pressed 'Configure', CMake should have detected your SWIG
    tools: this should create two variables in CMake called SWIG_DIR
    and SWIG_EXECUTABLE. If all is fine, they should automatically
    contain meaningful values, for example C:/swigwin-2.0.4/Lib and
    C:/swigwin-2.0.4/swig.exe , so you do not need to touch them.

-   Press 'Configure' again, then 'Generate', and proceed as usual in
    the installation instructions.

Read the notes below for details and troubleshooting related to
compilation of this unit.

After the successful compilation, the
[**Chrono::PyEngine**](/documentation/chrono_pyengine/) modules
are built and installed in your Python environment, so you will be able
to open a Python editor and to type Python commands that call
Chrono::Engine functions.

See the [intro to Python scripting](Python_scripting "wikilink") to see
how to use
[**Chrono::PyEngine**](/documentation/chrono_pyengine/).

Notes
-----

For your knowledge, the build process of the **PyChrono::Engine** Python
modules, as generated by CMake, internally consists of these automatic
steps:

- SWIG preprocesses many C++ source code files in order to generate a
.cxx wrapper file that contains the code for accessing C++ functions
through the Python API, and some .py files

- the C++ compiler compiles the .cxx file and generates one or more dll,

- these dll are copied into the /DLLs directory of your Python
distribution, but their .dll suffix will be changed to .pyd; those files
represent the Python modules,

- other required dll such as ChronoEngine.dll are copied in the /DLLs
directory, with .dll suffix.

- auxiliary .py files will be placed in the /Lib directory of your
Python distribution.